=pod

=head1 NAME

withsome - with some file name run a command on matching nearby files

Version 0.19

=head1 SYNOPSIS

withsome [I<DIRECTORY>] I<COMMAND> I<FILE> [I<FILE>] ...

withsome [I<DIRECTORY>] I<COMMAND> I<Perl::Module> [I<FILE>] ...

withsome [I<DIRECTORY>] I<FILE> [I<FILE>] ... I<-> I<COMMAND> [I<OPTION>] ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Find all files with a provided name or glob under one or more directories and allow a user to run a command against any matching instances of the name, or glob, through interactive menus and prompts.  A little similar to zsh recursive wildcards or a combination of find, xargs (and maybe select) but designed to be friendlier, safer, and provide better user interaction than either and works with bash.  If a menu of matching files needs to presented for file selection the files will be sorted to present paths with the fewest elements first and then sort paths of identical length in elements alphabetically.  See examples below.

=head1 EXAMPLES


=head2 Example 1: case of one file matching on explicit root

 withsome ~/pugs view eval.pl
 view /home/ron/pugs/examples/eval.pl
  - Empty reply accepts, anything else aborts (help for explanation)? 
 (pressing enter runs view on /home/someone/pugs/examples/eval.pl)


=head2 Example 2: case of a few files matching on explicit root

 withsome ~/pugs vi Pugs.pm
 1) /home/ron/pugs/lib/Inline/Pugs.pm
 2) /home/ron/pugs/lib/Perl6/Pugs.pm
 3) /home/ron/pugs/blib/lib/Inline/Pugs.pm
 4) /home/ron/pugs/blib/lib/Perl6/Pugs.pm
 5) /home/ron/pugs/inc/Module/Install/Pugs.pm
 A) * All of the above
 Indicate your selection(s) from the above or 0 for none (default 1): 1 4
 (    giving 1 and 4 as inputs and pressing enter runs vi on:
          /home/ron/pugs/lib/Inline/Pugs.pm
          /home/ron/pugs/blib/lib/Perl6/Pugs.pm                  )


=head2 Example 3: case of one file matching and pre-configured root

 withsome wc eval.pl
 wc /home/ron/pugs/examples/eval.pl
  - Empty reply accepts, anything else aborts (help for explanation)? 
   83  269 2016 /home/ron/pugs/examples/eval.pl

=head3 Example omitted for brevity: analogous case of a few matching files and pre-configured root

=head2 Example 4: search for Perl(ish) module

 withsome ~/pugs vi Inline::Pugs
 1) ../t/testdata/pugs/lib/Inline/Pugs.pm
 2) ../t/testdata/pugs/blib/lib/Inline/Pugs.pm
 A) * All of the above
 Indicate your selection(s) from the above or 0 for none (default 1):

=head2 Example 5: case of a few files matching on explicit root with hyphen (-) prefix option(s)

 withsome ~/pugs Pugs.pm - wc -l
 1) /home/ron/pugs/lib/Inline/Pugs.pm
 2) /home/ron/pugs/lib/Perl6/Pugs.pm
 3) /home/ron/pugs/blib/lib/Inline/Pugs.pm
 4) /home/ron/pugs/blib/lib/Perl6/Pugs.pm
 5) /home/ron/pugs/inc/Module/Install/Pugs.pm
 A) * All of the above
 Indicate your selection(s) from the above or 0 for none (default 1): 1 4
  125 /home/ron/pugs/lib/Inline/Pugs.pm
  100 /home/ron/pugs/blib/lib/Perl6/Pugs.pm
  225 total

=head1 Configuration

The withsome utility has configuration options that can be controlled through environment variables as listed below.  The variables can also be set in a S<.withsome-rc> file in your home directory.  Note that if you have the dialog/cdialog package installed, the command C<withsome --config> will allow you to configure the environment options in the S<.withsome-rc> file through interactive dialogs and menus.

=over

=item WS_FIND_ROOT

Root of search path for file names and globs.  May also be colon separated list of such search path roots.

=item WS_IGNORE 

Colon separated list of prune directory or other file system names to be used as prune arguments to find.

=item WS_FOLLOW 

Configures following or pruning through directories that represent links or mount points.  The default is to follow neither.  The value settings of link/links, mount points, and all respectively instruct withsome to follow links, mount points or both in its finds/searches.

=item WS_SAFE_CMD 

Colon separated list of commands that can be run without prior prompting when exactly one match is found. Commands like ls and wc make good candidates.

=item WS_FORBIDDEN_CMD 

Colon separated list of commands that should never be run from withsome.  The rm command might be a good candidate here.  Note that basename matching is used here so that precluding rm will also preclude /bin/rm/ and /usr/bin/rm.

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

This is alpha software - use at your own risk.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

A reasonably recent (>2.X) version of bash and nearly any perl.  The perl requirement might be lifted at some point.

=head1 INSTALLATION 

To install this script just place the entire content of the bin
directory, including the withsome-util subdirectory and its files,
on your path.  Either modify your path with something like:

export PATH=$PATH:~/withsome/bin

or copy the content with a command like

S<cp -r /home/my_account_home/withsome/bin/* /usr/local/something_on_my_path/>

That's it!

Don't forget to run the included tests BEFORE installing by running t/t.sh.
The last two tests have many requirements, including sudo, as well as
pre-requisites so don't worry if those two don't run.

=head1 COPYRIGHT and Licensing.

Copyright (C) 2007-2016  Ronald Schmidt 

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


=cut
